So far we've seen some major indices that track a large collection of stocks,
from big to small with different sectors such as technology or banking.
What if we wanted a more refined look at
just the smaller companies or what if we wanted to track just high-growth companies.
Having a more specific index would help if
our investment research is focused on companies with similar characteristics.
Index creators often make indices that group stocks by
market capitalization defined as large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap.
Market capitalization or market cap of a company is
its number of shares outstanding times the price per share.
In other words; market cap is the market value of the company.